Note:
1. The definition of the picture in the homepage is in the file /_includes/header.html


ms thesis

compliance

mobile

dc

matlab

basketball

bees

upper limb

tech 

cabot
 
The preloads of wheel hub bearing affects its working performance and service life. In order to study the action mechanism. the study on the effect of wheel hub bearing preloads on the natural frequency is particularly important. Aiming at a certain type wheel hub bearing, the wheel bearing swept sine vibration test system was built. and the conclusion was got after testing different preload of wheel hub bearing. The figure below shows the frequency response of the wheel hub bearing.

As the fiure shown below, the conclusion is that in the experimental condition, when the preload increases, the first order natural frequency of the wheel hub bearing becomes larger as well. But growth trend of the first order natural frequency becomes smaller with the preload increasing. 


In this project, I wrote a Matlab library of functions to implement robotic manipulation.

The concepts or algorithms were learned from Prof. Kevin Lynch's course: Robotic Manipulation. The functions span from basic operations on SO(3) and SE(3) elements, screw axes, matrix exponentials, calculating Jacobians, to more advanced algorithmic procedures like numerical inverse kinematics and dynamics, polynomial time-scaling and optimum joint trajectory generation.

Many of these functions were used to simulate real robots - the UR5 (6DoF) and WAM (7DoF) robotic arms - using their URDF files. The simulations of the robot motions are shown as GIF above and the figures below show the joint movements and the effect of trajectory tracking.




I'm Huan Weng, originally from China, I'm currently pursuing an MS of Mechanical Engineering in Northwestern University. I'm doing my thesis in Neuroscience and Robotics Lab (NxR) supervised by Prof. Kevin Lynch. I got my Bachelor degree of Mechanical Engineering from Beihang University (BUAA), China. 

As an undergraduate, I decided to undertake a number of different projects encompassing exoskeleton, medical devices and vibration research. I was drawn to robotics because of its interdisciplinary and practical nature. In my graduat program, I learned much more about robotics including theories and applications, both in class and by myself. Although almost every aspect of robotics is so fascinating, I've developed a strong interest in robotic manipulation, human-machine interaction, control and mechatronics.

In my free time, I like thinking, going to see a new movie, hiking, playing some sports, designing and playing my Lego such as creating a simple and strong suspension system for my remote control Porsche model, and plenty of other things depending on who's around and what's happening. 

I am a person who spare no effot to do what I love. I love robotics and willing to learn much more about it. As the time for robot approaches, I hope some day I can change the world using my brain, or at least improve others' lives. There is an old saying in china that: There are men dead before their death, like some others live on after their days. I wish I could live on after my days, in this way.

I'm presently seeking relevant PhD programs about Robotics. Feel free to contact me if you think I could be a good fit for your lab/project.





